<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->

- [Android Tablet Setup Guide](#android-tablet-setup-guide)
  - [Hardware Requirements](#hardware-requirements)
    - [Android Tablet](#android-tablet)
    - [Keyboard](#keyboard)
      - [Portable/Stationary Keyboards](#portablestationary-keyboards)
      - [Stationary Keyboards](#stationary-keyboards)
      - [Portable Keyboards](#portable-keyboards)
    - [Mouse](#mouse)
    - [USB-C Hub](#usb-c-hub)
    - [Power Adapter](#power-adapter)
    - [KVM Switch](#kvm-switch)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Android Tablet Setup Guide

This document aims to guide you in setting up your Android tablet as a useful
and powerful computing device rather than a novelty toy. I will show you how to
disable a lot of annoyances, install the best web browser, email client and a
linux desktop.  Many annoyances will remain, due to the nature of Android, but
you will quickly get used to them and they won't bother you much.

There are many advantages to this setup. You will have an ARM device with incomparably better battery life than a laptop, while having almost the full power of a linux laptop, as well as full access to all mobile apps without having to switch to a different device.

### Hardware Requirements

I am assuming for the purposes of this setup, that you are using a mid-range to
high-end Android tablet with plenty of RAM and storage, with a keyboard and
bluetooth mouse.

#### Android Tablet

I am using the Samsung S7+ tablet with the keyboard cover case, this is
currently the most powerful tablet on the market. But any mid-range tablet will
work for this purpopse as well.

If you are buying a tablet, I recommend getting one with plenty of internal
storage or an SD card slot. If internal storage is small, but you have an SD
card slot, also buy a high capacity SD card and format it as internal storage.
The bigger the better, especially if you will do development.

Make sure the tablet uses a USB-C port and **NOT** micro-usb. If your tablet
uses micro-usb, you will still be able to follow this setup with a bluetooth
keyboard and mouse, but you will not be able to connect USB devices with an OTG
adapter and charge the tablet simultaneously. With a USB-C hub however, this is
possible.

Make sure to get a case with a kickstand.

#### Keyboard

While you can connect any wired or wireless keyboard with a USB-C hub, a
bluetooth keyboard is more practical, especially for portable use. The Samsung
S7+ keyhboard cover case is adequate for portable use, but I would recommend a
better keyboard for stationary use.

Some good options for a bluetooth keyboard:

##### Portable/Stationary Keyboards

**Razer BlackWidow V3 Mini HyperSpeed Wireless Mechanical**

https://www.amazon.com/Razer-BlackWidow-HyperSpeed-Wireless-Mechanical/dp/B0935JBWTN/

This is the best choice for both portable and stationary use, the keyboard feels
wonderful to type on and is small enough to put in your backpack. You will
probably want to get a wrist-rest for it.

**Keychron K7 and K3 Ultra-slim Wireless**

K7:

https://www.keychron.com/products/keychron-k7-ultra-slim-wireless-mechanical-keyboard?variant=39396239016025

K3:

https://www.keychron.com/products/keychron-k3-wireless-mechanical-keyboard?utm_source=navi%20to%20K3&utm_medium=navi%20bar&utm_campaign=navi%20to%20K3

These mechanical keyboards have excellent reviews, and they are more portable than the Razer above, while still being nice to type on.

##### Stationary Keyboards

You can get a great full-size bluetooth keyboard:

**GameSir GK300 Wireless Mechanical Gaming Keyboard**

https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B07PXJC64S/

I recommend getting a better wrist-rest than the one it comes with.

For stationary use, you can also connect any wired or wireless keyboard with a USB-C hub (see below about USB-C hubs). I personally like the Corsair K70 MK.2 with blue switches as far as wired keyboards go, and the Unicomp keyboards.

Corsair K70:

https://www.corsair.com/us/en/Categories/Products/Gaming-Keyboards/RGB-Mechanical-Gaming-Keyboards/K70-RGB-MK-2/p/CH-9109011-NA

Unicomp Ultra Classic:

https://www.pckeyboard.com/page/product/00UA41P4A

Unicomp EnduraPro (with trackpoint mouse device, currently unavailable):

https://www.pckeyboard.com/page/category/EnduraPro

There are of course a huge number of other excellent keyboards available.

##### Portable Keyboards

The best reviewed ultra-portable keyboard available right now:

**Microsoft Designer Compact Keyboard**

https://smile.amazon.com/Microsoft-Designer-Compact-Keyboard-21Y-00031/dp/B08JM45NSM/

Any portable bluetooth keyboard will work, but avoid mini-keyboards that are
missing many standard keyboard keys.

#### Mouse

You can use any mouse, wired or wireless with a USB-C hub, but I recommend a bluetooth mouse. Any bluetooth mouse will work, I recommend this one for both portable and stationary use:

**Logitech MX Anywhere 3**

https://smile.amazon.com/Logitech-Performance-Scrolling-Customizable-Bluetooth/dp/B089NJQR5T/

When buying a mouse, keep in mind that extra features like programmable buttons will not work on Android. But the standard 3 buttons, scroll wheel, side scrolling and back/forward buttons will all work fine.

#### USB-C Hub

For connecting USB devices such as a keyboard, mouse, etc., get any USB-C hub with power delivery. This is necessary to be able to charge your tablet while using USB devices. 100 Watt power delivery is preferrable to use the power adapter I mention below.

#### Power Adapter

I recommend getting a USB-C power adapter that supports power delivery, instead of the standard charger. This is also necessary to use the KVM switch I mention below.

I recommend this one:

**Nekteck 95W USB C Wall Charger with Multiple Ports**

https://smile.amazon.com/Nekteck-Multiple-Plodable-Compatible-ThinkPad/dp/B085RHFR5S/

This one also has a couple of USB ports to charge your phone or other devices.

#### KVM Switch

You can use a USB-C KVM with power delivery to switch USB peripherals such as a keyboard and mouse and other devices between your tablet and other computer, laptop or desktop. For this you will need a power adapter that supports power delivery, like the one above. This KVM is excellent for this purpose:

**IOGEAR - Access Pro 2-Port USB-C KVM Switch with Power Delivery**

https://smile.amazon.com/IOGEAR-Access-Delivery-Compliant-GUD3C04/dp/B07WRN3FZN/

For the power delivery function to work, your tablet has to be in port 1.
